CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Overview

RabbitMQ projects use pull requests to discuss, collaborate on and accept code contributions.
Pull requests is the primary place of discussing code changes.

## How to Contribute

The process is fairly standard:

 * Fork the repository or repositories you plan on contributing to
 * Clone [RabbitMQ umbrella repository](https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-public-umbrella)
 * `cd umbrella`, `make co`
 * Create a branch with a descriptive name in the relevant repositories
 * Make your changes, run tests, commit with a [descriptive message](https://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html), push to your fork
 * Submit pull requests with an explanation what has been changed and **why**
 * Submit a filled out and signed [Contributor Agreement](https://github.com/rabbitmq/ca#how-to-submit) if needed (see below)
 * Be patient. We will get to your pull request eventually

If what you are going to work on is a substantial change, please first ask the core team
of their opinion on [RabbitMQ mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rabbitmq-users).


## Code of Conduct

See [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).


## Contributor Agreement

If you want to contribute a non-trivial change, please submit a signed copy of our
[Contributor Agreement](https://github.com/rabbitmq/ca#how-to-submit) around the time
you submit your pull request. This will make it much easier (in some cases, possible)
for the RabbitMQ team at Pivotal to merge your contribution.


## Where to Ask Questions

If something isn't clear, feel free to ask on our [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rabbitmq-users).

Commit message:

Copy make files from latest rabbitmq-server `main` branch

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Overview

RabbitMQ projects use pull requests to discuss, collaborate on and accept code contributions.
Pull requests is the primary place of discussing code changes.

## How to Contribute

The process is fairly standard:

 * Fork the repository or repositories you plan on contributing to
 * Run `make`
 * Create a branch with a descriptive name in the relevant repositories
 * Make your changes, run tests, ensure correct code formatting, commit with a [descriptive message](https://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html), push to your fork
 * Submit pull requests with an explanation what has been changed and **why**
 * Submit a filled out and signed [Contributor Agreement](https://cla.pivotal.io/) if needed (see below)
 * Be patient. We will get to your pull request eventually

If what you are going to work on is a substantial change, please first ask the core team
of their opinion on [RabbitMQ mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rabbitmq-users).

## Running Tests

See [this guide on how to use Bazel and BuildBuddy for RabbitMQ core development](https://github.com/rabbitmq/contribute/wiki/Bazel-and-BuildBuddy).

## Formatting the RabbitMQ CLI

The RabbitMQ CLI uses the standard [Elixir code formatter](https://hexdocs.pm/mix/main/Mix.Tasks.Format.html). To ensure correct code formatting of the CLI:

```
cd deps/rabbitmq_cli
mix format
```

Running `make` will validate the CLI formatting and issue any necessary warnings. Alternatively, run the format checker in the `deps/rabbitmq_cli` directory:

```
mix format --check-formatted
```

## Code of Conduct

See [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Contributor Agreement

If you want to contribute a non-trivial change, please submit a signed copy of our
[Contributor Agreement](https://cla.pivotal.io/) around the time
you submit your pull request. This will make it much easier (in some cases, possible)
for the RabbitMQ team at Pivotal to merge your contribution.

## Where to Ask Questions

If something isn't clear, feel free to ask on our [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rabbitmq-users)
and [community Slack](https://rabbitmq-slack.herokuapp.com/).
